
Skip to main content



Back to Home
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System


Stay Connected




Federal Reserve Facebook Page




Federal Reserve Instagram Page




Federal Reserve YouTube Page




Federal Reserve Flickr Page




Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page




Federal Reserve Threads Page




Federal Reserve Twitter Page




Subscribe to RSS




Subscribe to Email




Recent Postings


Calendar


Publications


Site Map


A-Z index


Careers


FAQs


Videos


Contact




Search



Submit Search Button





Advanced




Toggle Dropdown Menu







Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
            

The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides
          the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial
          system.







Main Menu Toggle Button

Sections

Search Toggle Button





Search


Search Submit Button
Submit








Aboutthe Fed





Structure of the Federal Reserve System


The Fed Explained


Board Members


Advisory Councils


Federal Reserve Banks


Federal Reserve Bank and Branch Directors


Federal Reserve Act


Currency




Board Meetings


Board Votes


Diversity & Inclusion


Careers


Do Business with the Board


Holidays Observed - K.8


Ethics & Values




Contact


Requesting Information (FOIA)


FAQs


Economic Education


Fed Financial Statements


Innovation







News& Events


Press Releases


Speeches


Testimony


Calendar


Videos


Photo Gallery


Conferences




MonetaryPolicy






Federal Open Market Committee



About the FOMC


Meeting calendars and information


Transcripts and other historical materials


FAQs



Monetary Policy Principles and Practice



Notes





Policy Implementation



Policy Normalization


Policy Tools



Reports



Monetary Policy Report


Beige Book


Federal Reserve Balance Sheet Developments



Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications



Overview







Supervision& Regulation






Institution Supervision



Community & Regional Financial Institutions


Large Financial Institutions


Foreign Banking Organizations


Financial Market Utilities


Consumer Compliance



Reports



Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Report





Reporting Forms



All Reporting Forms


Recent Updates


Information collections under review


Financial Statements


Applications/structure change


Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)


Municipal & Government Securities





Supervision & Regulation Letters



By Year


By Topic



Banking Applications & Legal Developments



Application Process


Board & Reserve Bank Action


Enforcement Actions & Legal Developments





Regulatory Resources



Regulations


Manuals


Basel Regulatory Framework


Volcker Rule


Education, Training, and Assistance





Banking & Data Structure



Beneficial Ownership reports


Large Commercial Banks


U.S. Offices of Foreign Entities


Financial Holding Companies


Interstate Branching


Securities Underwriting & Dealing Subsidiaries


Minority Depository Institutions







FinancialStability





Financial Stability Assessments 



About Financial Stability


Types of Financial System Vulnerabilities & Risks


Monitoring Risk Across the Financial System


Proactive Monitoring of Markets & Institutions


Financial Stability & Stress Testing





Financial Stability Coordination & Actions



Responding to Financial System Emergencies


Cooperation on Financial Stability



Reports



Financial Stability Report






PaymentSystems






Regulations & Statutes



Regulation CC (Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks)


Regulation II (Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing)


Regulation HH (Financial Market Utilities)


Other Regulations and Statutes





Payment Policies



Federal Reserve's Key Policies for the Provision of Financial Services


Guidelines for Evaluating Joint Account Requests


Overnight Overdrafts


Payment System Risk


Sponsorship for Priority Telecommunication Services





Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data



Automated Clearinghouse Services


Check Services


Currency and Coin Services


Daylight Overdrafts and Fees


FedNow® Service


Fedwire Funds Services


Fedwire Securities Services


Fiscal Agency Services


Master Account and Services Database


National Settlement Service





Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures



Supervision & Oversight of Financial Market Infrastructures


Designated Financial Market Utilities


International Standards for Financial Market Infrastructures





Research, Committees, and Forums



Payment Research


Federal Reserve Payments Study (FRPS)


Payments System Policy Advisory Committee


Forums







EconomicResearch





Meet the Economists



Working Papers and Notes



Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS)


FEDS Notes


International Finance Discussion Papers (IFDP)





Data, Models and Tools



Economic Research Data


FRB/US Model


Estimated Dynamic Optimization (EDO) Model


Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF)







Data





Data Download Program



Bank Assets and Liabilities



Aggregate Reserves of Depository Institutions and the Monetary Base - H.3


Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks in the U.S. - H.8


Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks


Charge-Off and Delinquency Rates on Loans and Leases at Commercial Banks


Senior Financial Officer Survey


Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices





Bank Structure Data



Large Commercial Banks


Minority Depository Institutions


Structure and Share Data for the U.S. Offices of Foreign Banks



Business Finance



Commercial Paper


Finance Companies - G.20


New Security Issues, State and Local Governments


New Security Issues, U.S. Corporations



Dealer Financing Terms



Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms





Exchange Rates and International Data



Foreign Exchange Rates - H.10/G.5


International Summary Statistics


Securities Holdings and Transactions


Statistics Reported by Banks and Other Financial Firms in the United States


Structure and Share Data for U.S. Offices of Foreign Banks



Financial Accounts



Financial Accounts of the United States - Z.1





Household Finance



Consumer Credit - G.19


Household Debt Service and Financial Obligations Ratios


Mortgage Debt Outstanding


Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF)


Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking



Industrial Activity



Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization - G.17



Interest Rates



Selected Interest Rates - H.15





Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM)



Micro and Macro Data Collections



Money Stock and Reserve Balances



Factors Affecting Reserve Balances - H.4.1


Money Stock Measures - H.6



Other



Yield Curve Models and Data







Consumers & Communities






Regulations



Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)


All Regulations



Supervision & Enforcement



CA Letters


Enforcement Actions


Independent Foreclosure Review





Community Development



Housing and Neighborhood Revitalization


Small Business and Entrepreneurship


Employment and Workforce Development


Community Development Finance


Rural Community and Economic Development




Conferences



Research & Analysis



Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking


Research Publications & Data Analysis




Community Advisory Council



Consumer Resources



Mortgage and Foreclosure Resources


Federal Reserve Community Development Resources












Home
News & Events
Press Releases




                       Press Release
                    

  PDF 





Please enable JavaScript if it is disabled in your browser or access the information through the links provided below. 






June 16, 2021
Federal Reserve issues FOMC statement
For release at 2:00 p.m. EDT                     
                
                

Share



























The Federal Reserve is committed to using its full range of tools to support the U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment and price stability goals.
Progress on vaccinations has reduced the spread of COVID-19 in the United States. Amid this progress and strong policy support, indicators of economic activity and employment have strengthened. The sectors most adversely affected by the pandemic remain weak but have shown improvement. Inflation has risen, largely reflecting transitory factors. Overall financial conditions remain accommodative, in part reflecting policy measures to support the economy and the flow of credit to U.S. households and businesses.
The path of the economy will depend significantly on the course of the virus. Progress on vaccinations will likely continue to reduce the effects of the public health crisis on the economy, but risks to the economic outlook remain.
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. With inflation having run persistently below this longer-run goal, the Committee will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer‑term inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. The Committee expects to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these outcomes are achieved. The Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and expects it will be appropriate to maintain this target range until labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee's assessments of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on track to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time. In addition, the Federal Reserve will continue to increase its holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage‑backed securities by at least $40 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward the Committee's maximum employment and price stability goals. These asset purchases help foster smooth market functioning and accommodative financial conditions, thereby supporting the flow of credit to households and businesses.
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will take into account a wide range of information, including readings on public health, labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments.
Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. Williams, Vice Chair; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Charles L. Evans; Randal K. Quarles; and Christopher J. Waller.
Implementation Note issued June 16, 2021






Last Update:
            June 16, 2021
        





Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

About the FedNews & EventsMonetary PolicySupervision & RegulationFinancial StabilityPayment SystemsEconomic ResearchDataConsumers & CommunitiesLinktree



Tools and Information

Contact
Publications
Freedom of Information (FOIA)
Office of Inspector General
Budget & Performance | Audit
No FEAR Act
Español
Website Policies  | Privacy Program
Accessibility




Stay Connected
Federal Reserve Facebook Page
Federal Reserve Instagram Page
Federal Reserve YouTube Page
Federal Reserve Flickr Page
Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page
Federal Reserve Threads Page
Link to Federal Reserve Twitter Page
Subscribe to RSS
Subscribe to Email











Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551












